

# Lines

## Slope

We need two points.

(x1, y1), (x2, y2)

Slope is defined as "rise over run".

Rise / Run

So we need the difference between x1 and x2, and the difference between y1 and y2.

Rise / Run = (y2 - y1) / (x2 - x1) = m

If you fix one point to one coordinate and leave the other point floating, you have:

(y - y1) / (x - x1) = m

which is equivalent to:

m = (y - y1) / (x - x1)

If you multiply both sides by (x - x1), you get:

m(x - x1) = y - y1

which is equivalent to:

y - y1 = m(x - x1)

which is the point-slope formula.

### Example 1
Find the equation through (-2, -3), (8, 2)

#### Answer: m = 1/2

y = mx + b **is the slope intercept form.**

*b* is the *y - intercept *. 

*m* is the *slope*

when *y = c* where *c* is a constant, you have a *horizontal line*.

when *x = c* where *c* is a constant, you have a *vertical line*.

### Example 2
Make this into slope intercept form:
- 4x + 2y - 3 = 0

#### Answer: y = -2x + 3/2

## Parallel lines 

Lines that have the same slope. 

## Perpendicular lines

Lines where the slopes are negative reciprocals of each other. 

### Example 3
Find the equation of the line that passes through the point (6, 7), and is *parallel* to:
- 2x + 3y = 12

#### Answer: y = (-2/3)x + 11

Find the equation of the line that passes through the point (6, 7), and is *perpendicular* to:

#### Answer: y = (3/2)x - 2


## Angles of Inclination

The angle between the X axis and a given line. 

We represent the angle of inclination of line A with theta.
Imagine the x-axis as just another line. 

We can draw a triangle using line A, the intersection between the x-axis and A, and the distance between the x-axis and A. 

We will call the line formed from the intersection point between A and the x-axis and the spanning x after that intersection point as delta x,
delta meaning "change in" x. 

We will call the distance between line A and the x-axis, meaning the difference in y between an arbitrary point in A and the y-coordinate of the x-axis
(which is zero) delta y, meaning "change in" y. 

Then, with trigonometry, we can find a slope. 

tan (theta) = (delta y) / (delta x)

This is the same as (y1 - y2) / (x1 - x2), but between the x-axis and a line, since they're saying the same thing.
y1 - y2 finds the difference in y coordinates, which is delta y. x1 - x2 finds the difference in x coordinates, which is delta x. 

This means:
tan (theta) = (delta y) / (delta x)

is equivalent to:

slope = m

### Example 4
Find the slope of a line where the angle of inclination is 30 degrees (pi/6). 

#### Answer: sqrt(3)/3

### Example 5
Find the angle of inclination of a line, where the slope is -1. 

#### Answer: theta = (3pi)/4

## The Distance Formula 

The formula for the distance between two points in a linear line. 

Between (x1, y1) and (x2, y2), we can draw a triangle where the base of the triangle equals (x2 - x1) and the height of the triangle equals (y2 - y1). 

Then we can solve for the hypotenuse, which is the distance between the two points. 

D = sqrt((x2 - x1)^2 + (y2 - y1)^2)




